[Professor X] Previously on X-Men...
You risk our fates on a mutant
who cannot be trusted.
[Magneto] Not merely the first mutant.
The first X-Man.
[En Sabah Nur]
What is the meaning of this?
[Baal] This so-called prophet
has lied to you.
Destroy them!
Well. I'll be!
Time to get the hell out of this place.
We need you back in the 1990s.
I suppose it was only a matter of time.
Nur cannot live to challenge me
for the Temple.
[yells]
[♪ opening theme music playing]
[evil laugh]
[En Sabah Nur yells]
[snarls]
[breathes heavily]
I could only save us few.
[Bishop] Tick-tock. y'all.
[Magneto] Bishop. stay your hand.
Not yet.
[Bishop] How about now?
Charles?
His mind. There's too much rage.
Nur. there has been enough death this day.
Let us explain. please!
Magnus.
You are a prophet of lies!
He has told you the truth.
just not all of it.
We are lost travelers.
But we are not from here.
Just give me a chance to explain
when we come from.
You survived the Pharaoh's attack.
Such strength merits
the chance to say your piece.
But know this.
If your truth falters. my blade will not.
[Bishop] How'd I get stuck
playing chaperone to a bunch of martyrs
who tried using the worst mutant ever
to rewrite the whole damn timeline?
[Nightcrawler] To be clear.
not all present here
were on board with Magneto's plan.
A point made often and to no end.
Tell me. Bishop. the dire situation
you've outlined for us in the '90s.
would my plan not rectify matters?
You yourself have traveled back in time
and done similar to save your own future.
This is me doing the same.
Erik's intentions may be noble.
but he is tampering with variables
none of us can fully understand.
Bishop's time-bands
give us a way to return home.
We should take it.
This isn't just about us anymore.
It has the potential to be
about everyone still to come.
And everyone we've lost.
You think of Remy and of undoing his fate.
I'm as skeptical as any of ya.
But if your plan works. Erik.
Nur could pave a way to a future
where everyone in Genosha survived.
Thank you. Rogue.
Democracy may be
a few thousand years away.
but perhaps we take a vote.
Who would like to return to our time?
[grunts]
[Nightcrawler gasps]
[in German] Mein Gott!
What have you done?
- [Magneto] I voted.
- [Bishop] You madman.
- You just stranded us!
- [Magneto] So dramatic.
Charles suspects the lost Temple
the Pharaoh seeks
also contains the power necessary
to repair your time-band.
It will get us home.
once we've helped set Nur
on the proper path.
You all are from the future?
Five thousand years from now.
A time when mutants
are not a rarity like you.
But a people. thousands strong
across the entire world.
That symbol you hold.
it belongs to our team. the X-Men.
It is a promise of a future
where young mutants work together.
learning to use their powers
to build a better world.
Mutants much like yourself.
My quest to free Egypt has failed.
my people killed.
There is no better world.
No grand future to dream of
beyond my own survival.
Perhaps.
Or perhaps we can help rebuild the world
that the Pharaoh has taken from you.
General Logos spoke of a lost temple
of great cosmic power.
A power I now sense...
may be calling to you.
What would you have me do?
A psychic probe can cause discomfort.
Do your best to relax.
Pain calms me.
[crying]
[auctioneer] Step forward!
Strong back. strong shoulders.
Where shall we start the bidding?
Do not mind the color of him.
Look at the eyes.
[En Sabah Nur grunts]
[grunts]
[crowd cheering]
[Eson] Come.
Come be eternal.
Eternal.
That constellation.
I saw it in the mind
of Rama-Tut's general.
But larger.
Directly above
the Temple's hidden location.
The Gardener's Gaze
in the southwestern sky.
I can follow the stars across the desert
to bring us there.
Like I said. Nur is our path home.
To a new and brighter future
we will build together.
[dramatic music playing]
Hold! Hold!
Let's camp for the night
and steal some rest.
Who knows what dangers await
in that cursed temple.
[En Sabah Nur] Cannot sleep?
I never can either.
Just hard to believe. is all.
That we might finally be able
to punch our ticket home.
And yet you do not seem glad.
What is awaiting you there?
It's more about what's not waiting for me.
Someone I lost.
Someone special.
What about you? You ever been in love?
My mother abandoned me in the desert
as an infant.
And ever since. everyone
I have ever known. I've lost.
Love is pain.
A weakness I cannot afford.
[Rogue] And the only thing
that makes life worth living.
[sighs] And there's the rub.
I do hope you get to experience it
one day.
For all our sakes.
Hmm...
Charles.
Hello. Charles. Wakey-wakey.
Do you want to know
the secrets of the Temple?
- [gasps]
- I can tell you.
[mischievous voice] I know. I know.
I know! But it'll be exciting!
[assertive voice] You peddle
a dangerous history.
Who or what are you?
[mischievous voice] Oh! [chuckling]
He's going to be so surprised!
[assertive voice] Surprise is irrelevant.
Answer me!
[Rama-Tut] Charles Francis Xavier.
Founder of the X-Men.
Patron saint of peace.
Rama-Tut. I presume.
I have so many names.
Nathaniel. Victor. Kang.
Finding oneself can get addicting.
Who am I? Who was I?
Where do "I" end and "me" begin?
[mischievous voice] Watch!
He's not going to get it.
[assertive voice] Give him a chance.
Those other voices are you?
Echoes of who I was and who I could be.
This place blurs many lines.
It is an axis around which the past.
present and future all dance.
[Professor X] And yet you chose to come
to En Sabah Nur's time
and enslave his people.
Why?
Unless you believed he could be stopped.
There is a chance.
if I were able to acquire
the celestial power inside that Temple.
And no doubt ensure your conquest
across this time
and any other you choose.
A+. Charles!
I see the mind of the Professor
lives up to the legend.
[Professor X] Magnus believes
Nur can be turned.
And I will not betray Magnus.
Then you shall see for yourself.
You cannot stop him.
You never stop him.
[screams]
[pants]
[Beast] There are trace levels
of gamma particles.
Were I to improvise a calculation
using the radiation's known half-life.
I'd say this rock was melted
well over 10 millennia ago.
When a god fell from the skies.
[Beast] So alien.
And yet. familiar somehow.
Those eyes.
It's the Gardener's Gaze.
The same constellation that led us here.
Dang things give me the heebie-jeebies.
[Beast] Ah-ha!
I'm picking up energy signatures
of a celestial origin.
I've encountered something similar before.
It could be just the kind of power
we need.
Which way?
It appears the energy
is shorting out my scanner.
A lot of power. That sounds promising.
We must split up to find the source before
the Pharaoh's reinforcements arrive.
I prefer the company of Charles.
You may make amends for your lies
by at least honoring your word
to help your friends home.
As you wish.
I'm with the Professor.
Hope you don't mind my company.
En Sabah Nur.
[Rogue] Anyone else gettin'
a weird sense of... déjà vu?
[Beast] This computer bank.
These glyphs.
Oh. my heavens!
It's not déjà vu. Rogue.
We've been here before.
Not in this time but in ours.
This is no temple.
but the mighty spacecraft Ship.
designed by creatures
from across the stars.
[Ship] Greetings. traveler.
- Oh. dear.
- What's wrong?
In our time.
this vessel was a weapon of Apocalypse.
[tense music playing]
Sort of seems like
you know where you're going.
It almost feels like I do.
As if drawn by greater forces.
I don't... I don't understand.
[Professor X] Magnus.
you need to get here now!
[En Sabah Nur] This is me.
And you.
[Eson] Come be eternal.
[Professor X] Nur knows everything.
My future. it's all here.
You knew what I was to become
and you tried to take it from me.
Please. let me explain.
With more lies?
This is why you came to me.
Not to help me. but to stop me.
From becoming a monster
you do not wish to be.
From becoming who I was meant to be.
Don't take another step.
[blaster powers up]
[Professor X] Bishop. no!
Nur. this is not you.
You tried your best. Professor.
to mold me into your X-Man.
But you said my destiny is my choice.
- And I have made it.
- [groans]
[En Sabah Nur laughs wickedly]
Because I always have been
the fittest to survive.
Nur. please. resist whatever dark force
called you here.
Mutants share a destiny
to help the world move
beyond our darkest fears.
That is your destiny.
Mine is to evolve.
so I will never be powerless again.
[Rogue] Heard that one before.
[both grunt]
We were so wrong. Magnus.
Still. he is not yet
the unbeatable foe of our time.
[grunts]
X-Men. he must not enter that shrine.
[yells. groans]
Ah!
[groans]
I shall ascend.
[Eson] All creation is forged
through destruction.
the end bringing forth the beginning.
the beginning returning to the end.
You will be the end of things.
En Sabah Nur.
Armies will dream of your demise.
curse you. fear you.
But all creation must crash against
the Eternal Shore
in order to thrive and grow.
If you can endure it.
then say the words.
[En Sabah Nur] I am the rocks
of the Eternal Shore.
Crash against me and be broken!
Well. that don't sound too good.
Then might I suggest we make haste.
I was able to use pieces from Ship
to repair the time-bands.
- About friggin' time.
- [Rogue] Now. hold on.
We just rolled out the welcome mat
for Nur to become the deadliest
can of worms the X-Men ever opened.
We gotta stomp him out!
Am I the only sane person
in this loony bin?
Y'all made a mess enough
helping Nur get here.
A mess we were destined to make.
As we may be destined to contain it.
Exactly. Hank.
Our role here may not be finished.
Put on the damn tags.
or I will drag your riddle-lovin' butts
back to the future.
No need to be a villain. Bishop.
Not when you have me.
Damn it. Erik. don't do this!
I made this mess.
You X-Men will not sacrifice your lives
in order to clean it.
Not for me. Not again.
Stop this! Let us help!
You are helping.
Helping me honor my word
when I told you...
I would bring you home. old friend.
[groans]
[dramatic music playing]
Now who is the god and who is the insect?
Bring me to the seat
of Rama-Tut's kingdom.
He shall be the first to taste my fury.
[Ship] As you command.
[Magneto] Please listen to me.
I too once thought
violence could heal the world.
It cannot.
Violence can usher in a new age.
Forged of iron and blood.
An age free of weakness and victims.
That age begins now.
You will do no such thing.
[screams]
Charles. careful!
You shall pay for your betrayal. mutant.
Right now!
[Magneto] Charles.
you must stop the attack!
[yells]
Ship. abort your commands.
[Ship] Request denied. Apologies.
That flying vessel. It's Nur!
Well. it was Nur.
Now he is Apocalypse.
This time is no longer mine to conquer.
I must find another.
Where are you going?
Fear not. Your destiny starts today.
For his power can only be challenged
by a force that is...
external.
What? What do you mean? [gasps]
Only time will tell.
[screams]
[Apocalypse] To think I saw you
as a prophet.
And now you cannot even foresee your end!
Magnus!
Ship. destroy the city.
Until not an atom of it survives.
[Ship] As you command.
I would make a Horseman out of you.
were it not for the lack of spine.
[yells]
[Magneto] Get away from him!
[groans]
Magnus. you're injured.
Every living thing in this city
is being eradicated.
There must be something we can do.
The Ship only obeys Apocalypse.
[Magneto] Then...
I will stop it.
Magnus. you cannot.
The power is too great.
Magnetism can bind the debris
circling the black hole.
You'll die.
It is not enough to remember
the mistakes of our past. Charles.
Honor me with action. not tears.
That world needs you.
It always has.
Perhaps that is why
I gladly played the devil
who pushes sinners to embrace the saint.
[people screaming]
[dramatic music playing]
[woman grunts]
[straining]
[grunts]
[screams]
[people exclaiming]
[groans]
Magnus.
Magnus! Magnus!
Huh?
[Apocalypse] You claim to be a teacher.
But you failed to see the lesson.
The ones you care for
will be your undoing.
And when that day finally comes.
I will be all that is left.
[Magneto groans]
Get away from him!
Now. Professor.
lie to him as you have
so often lied to me.
Tell him it will be all right.
[Professor X] Magnus.
I'm sorry.
I can't...
Charles...
I'm sorry. [groans]
[groans]
[Professor X] How wise your mother
abandoning you.
Do you think she sensed your vile nature?
If only Baal had left you to bake.
What a better world.
I am a slave who tired
and so became a god.
I know your future.
You'll never be a god.
You will always be a monster.
But I will always be.
Alas. only a coward feels mighty
when stepping on ants.
Charles.
I'm sorry.
We couldn't stop him.
We never stop him.
Smelled ya coming a mile away. boy scout.
Down. boy.
Good to see you again. Logan.
Been a long time.
'Bout 50 years.
I see you're stayin' inconspicuous.
Stars and stripes still pull some weight.
even in these times.
[Black Widow] Secrets like this
don't stay buried by accident.
I don't know what you're planning. Logan.
and frankly don't wanna know.
But as a friend.
you can't go after these guys alone.
Don't worry your pretty feathers. Cap.
I got myself a crew.
Could even say
I'm getting the old band back together.
[closing theme music playing]